# Lens3 UI with vuejs+vuetify

Lens3 UI is created with vuejs+vuetify.  See
[https://vuejs.org](https://vuejs.org/) and
[https://vuetifyjs.com](https://vuetifyjs.com/en/).

The UI code is stored "$TOP/v1/src/lenticularis/ui", which is
generated by Vuetify.  They are genetated by running a "vite" build
utility in this directory ("$TOP/v1/ui") as described below.

## Prerequisites: Newer nodejs and npm

vuejs+vuetifty requires much newer versions of "nodejs" and "npm" than
the ones in the standard dnf repository in RedHat/Rocky.  While Rocky
8.8 is distributing nodejs 10.x, the latest is nodejs 20.x at this
writing (September 2023).

See the sections "Installation Instructions" in
[https://github.com/nodesource/distributions](https://github.com/nodesource/distributions).
The below is a copy of the instructions (for Redhat) with a change to
use dnf:

```
# dnf install https://rpm.nodesource.com/pub_20.x/nodistro/repo/nodesource-release-nodistro-1.noarch.rpm
# dnf install nodejs --setopt=nodesource-nodejs.module_hotfixes=1
```

This build uses a specific version of Vuetify 3.3.x that is 3.3.4 and
later.  It is because it uses an early-release, the "labs", version of
"v-date-picker" component.  It is explicit (3.3.15) in "package.json".

```
  "dependencies": {... "vuetify": "3.3.15", ...}
```

```
$ cd $TOP/v1/ui
$ npm install

$ npm run dev or build or lint
```

If "v-date-picker" is generally available as a production-ready
component, it is necessary to remove a import statement from the
source code.  The code should look like below.

```
<script lang="ts" setup>
    import {VDatePicker} from 'vuetify/labs/VDatePicker'
</script>
```

npm install
npm build vuetify

## ~~Prerequisites: Newer nodejs and npm (obsolete)~~

vuejs+vuetifty requires much newer versions of "nodejs" and "npm" than
the ones in RedHat/Rocky.  Rocky 8.8 is distributing nodejs 10.x and
npm 6.x at the time of this writing (June 2023).  The versions of
nodejs 18.x and npm 9.x can be installed as follows.

```
# curl -fsSL https://rpm.nodesource.com/setup_18.x > /tmp/setup_18.x
# bash /tmp/setup_18.x
# dnf install nodejs
# npm install -g npm@9.6.6

$ node --version
v18.16.0
$ npm --version
9.6.6
```

Check the Vuetify version.  It is better to use the version 3.  The
distributed application is created with vuetify@3.2.2.

```
$ npm ls --depth 0 vuetify
or
$ npm ls --global --depth 0 vuetify
```

It may be necessary to update vuetify to a newer version.

```
$ npm install --legacy-peer-deps vuetify@3
```

## Vuetify Application Build Procedure

"ui" directory contains the files for a Vuetify application.  They are
derived from the template files generated by running `npm create
vuetify`.  A build of Vuetify creates files in
"$TOP/v1/src/lenticularis/ui".

```
$ cd $TOP/v1/ui
$ npm install --legacy-peer-deps

$ npm run dev
or
$ npm run build
or
$ npm run lint
```

A build procedure is as usual.

(1) Run `npm install --legacy-peer-deps`, which installs dependent
packages (it is not for sure).  The option "--legacy-peer-deps" is
needed at the time of writing (June 2023).

(2) Run `npm run build`, which runs a "vite" build and generates
script files in "$TOP/v1/src/lenticularis/ui".  The crucial
configuration line in "vite.config.ts" is the "base".  It makes the
paths in the script relative ones.

```
build: {
  outDir: "../src/lenticularis/ui",
  minify: false,
  emptyOutDir: true,
  rollupOptions: {
    output: {
      entryFileNames: `assets/[name].js`,
      chunkFileNames: `assets/[name].js`,
      assetFileNames: `assets/[name].[ext]`
    }
  },
},
base: "./",
```

Note that adding "minify" makes the generated files readable, and
"rollupOptions" makes not to attach hash strings to the file names.

(3) Then, run `sh fix-index-for-base-path.sh`, which adds a script
line in "$TOP/v1/src/lenticularis/ui/index.html". It is to tell the
JavaScript code about the base-path -- it is needed to deal with URL
rewrites by a front-end proxy.  The actual line added is
`PLACE_BASE_PATH_HERE`.  This string will be replaced at runtime by
the following line (with an appropriate BASE-PATH value).

```
<script type="text/javascript">const base_path_="BASE-PATH";</script>
```

The BASE-PATH value is taken from the configuration setting.  This
replacement is performed in "api.py".  Modifying the base-path at
runtime is needed to make the UI code deployable.
